1) Why is there such a "learning curve" when learning a traditional programming language such as Java? 
There is quite a learning curve because you must first learn to read and write a new language. 
 
 
 
 2) What is learning to program ultimately about? 
 Learning to program is ultimately learning to think logically and to approach problems methodically.
 

 
 3) How does Scratch "lower the bar" to programming? 
 Scratch "lowers the bar" to programming by allowing budding computer scientists to focus on problems rather than syntax,
 to master programmatic constructs.
 
 
 
 4) What is a statement in a programming language? 
 A statement is simply a directive that tells the computer to do something.
 
 
 
 5) What is a Boolean expression? 
 An expression that is either true or false.
 
 
 
 6) What is a conditional statement? 
 Something that must be true in order for something to happen.
 
 
 
 7) What is a loop used for in a programming language? 
 A loop can induce multiple executions of statements.
 
 
 
 8) What is the difference between a local variable and a global variable? 
 In Scratch, a local variable can be used by just one sprite; a global variable can be used by all of your sprites.
  

 
 
 9) What is a Boolean variable? 
 A variable that only takes on a value of true or false.
 
 
 
 10) Which type of blocks in Scratch can be considered threads? 
 Any block whose label begins with "when" is considered a thread.
 
 
 
 11) Which type of blocks in Scratch can be considered event handlers? 
 Any block whose label begins with "broadcast" is considered an event handler.
 
 
 
 12) How many sprites are implemented in Oscartime? 
 9 sprites are implemented in Oscartime.
 
 
 
 13) How many threads are used to display the Oscartime game instructions? 
 1 thread is used to display the Oscartime game instructions.
 
 
 
 14) How many threads are used by Oscartime's Oscar sprite? 
 1-3 threads are used to display Oscartime's Oscar sprite.
 
 
 
 15) What programming constructs does Scratch NOT support? 
 Methods, parameters, return values, inheritance and polymorphism.


 
   
